thank you all for coming today I'm sure
you're here to here Andy and me speak
and there's nothing going on here about
a powerbook demo a power but give away
or anything okay so this is dash board
this is desk for development in depth
what we're going to do today is show you
a little bit about the architecture of
the dashboard what how it works and
they're going to basically get right
into creating a gadget we had a little
mix up here and we're not quicktime and
digital media but they you know they
have a pretty slide okay so there we go
it's beautiful okay so i'm john lauch
and this is andy gugino hello and
basically Andy and I are the engineers
responsible for the dashboard project
okay so what is the dashboard for you
what is the dashboard it is expose for
your information so Annie what does that
mean I have absolutely no idea right
that's the marketing line yeah okay so X
is a for information basically it's an
accessory layers that comes and goes
quickly not inferior with your workflow
very similar to what expose it's
kind of a modal interface you can
interact with it you can go back to
whatever you're using before and nothing
you know everything is exactly the same
way ok let's talk about the pieces of
the dashboard there's basically four
things there's a dashboard server
there's a clot there's clients is
basically one client for every gadget
okay and in in this clients there is a
gadget and the gadget can also contain a
native code plugin and we'll get to that
a little bit later ok so the dashboard
server it's a very lightweight process
that manages the dashboard client really
all it's doing is launching and
relaunching but the dashboard client
what that means is if the if the gadget
for some reason crashes we instantly
relaunch it and you almost won't be able
to tell this or the user almost won't be
able to tell this there might be some
data loss if there's a crash of course
we prevent crash loops and only do this
three times in some period I forget the
exact amount of time it's also
responsible for delivering or Marshall
and event from the from the system to
the clients back and forth it allows us
to do a lot of powerful things which you
saw in the demo you know that server
side dragging and that type of thing
it's the main thing is the other main
thing it does is it does all be
dashboard specific user interface you
guys have seen the clothes boxes you've
seen the riffles you've seen the
configuration spins anything that's not
in the gadget that is really related is
in the dashboard server that's what's
doing the work for you ok so the desk
for client this is a very small app get
process and really it's just a web view
there'll be lots of sessions about web
view and web technologies throughout
today the other things it does is it
probably a bridge between the dashboard
server and the dashboard and the and the
client so you know this is how you get
data back and forth between them this is
all hidden from you but that's what it's
one of its responsibilities are the the
other thing it does in the main thing
that's important for you writing a
gadget is it provides this gadget object
this is a JavaScript object rejected the
object that is bridged into into the
JavaScript runtime that allows you to do
the things like flips and other things
will mention soon ok ok so a gadget it's
just a web page it's that easy it really
is just an HTML webpage the few things
that requires is a gadget extent is a
bundle sorry just a bundle and you all
familias bundles in in on our system
same same same structural you're always
just familiar with we actually use a
flat bundle that you may or may not be
familiar with this is just everything
kind of at the top level so valid bundle
format any bundle former will actually
work it requires a gadget extension
something to note here to you probably
hear in the words widget and gadget
interchangeably that the name is not
really to the payments in transition I
think and basically everything on your
DVD has a dot gadget extension so if
you're developing these you have to use
the doc gadget stuff and that's what's
cool what you see in the interface on
the DVDs so inside of the bundles there
hasn't have an info.plist you have a
default image the default image has to
be a PNG file this is not this is just a
requirement for WWDC and then you have
an HTML file they'd when I said when we
say HTML file it doesn't necessarily
mean one file there just has to be a
starting place and an HTML file of
course can reference all other kinds of
web content other CSS style pages
JavaScript what have you any even
network resources and then you can have
a native code plug in as well ok so
writing a gadget what andy and i found
was the best the best way to start is
go find a gadget copy it that's just you
know it's the easiest thing to do we
have my I think seven gadgets on the
disk for you plus some in the SDK you
just copy those you can go look in there
there's all the codes already there for
you and and that's the best place to
start so you recopy the gadget you go in
you go into the bundle and you go to the
info.plist and start em you start enough
massaging the info.plist to match what
your what your gadget needs you to
change the keys and whatnot and then
launch Safari Safari is the debuggers
choice for this for this environment and
you can use any text editor to do video
editing I think Andy and I use bbedit
but you can use anything text edit
bbedit I you could use Microsoft Word
right okay so let's get coding and Andy
here I 22 yes alright so we are on demo
machine all right I followed this slide
phone ones look at any second we're new
at this so we thought we'd start today
by writing a sample gadget now I already
wrote this yesterday but we're going to
go through the exercise of putting one
together the thing we're going to write
today is a validator now there's a
million things that you've probably
found that can go wrong when you try to
put together a gadget you know some key
is wrong you're missing something so we
thought it'd be kind of cool to put
together gadget whose sole purpose is to
validate a gadget that you've already
written so all it does is you bring up
dashboard actually what you do is you
start a drag of your gadget you bring up
dashboard and you drop your gadget on to
what we're going to write today and what
it's going to do is it's going to
generate a report for you using HTML and
it's going to launch Safari and it's
going to tell you what's wrong hey Andy
yeah do we have a little mission to make
here you have a little admission to make
if I'm such a loser coder actually the
thing that you guys have available to
you doesn't actually validate it well
ours always is more of an info.plist
Walker but what i fixed it this morning
very early and so actually this guy will
glow validate it it's kind of
interesting because it's really true
that you know if you really easy to make
mistakes but really easy to fix them in
this environment because it's
interpreted in fact we shipped some
gadgets to it's a few minor issues with
them on your den yours developer TBD and
so maybe what we could do is just fix
them for them let's start by fixing a
bug actually you guys can follow along
if you want I think the one we're going
to attack is calculator aside from just
being ridiculously wrong in some of its
mass at sandia don't be mad as I'm sure
you found yeah I'm not really good like
that yeah so all the gadgets are stored
inside of / library gadget we'll go
ahead and go there you guys can do this
too you'll see calculator gadget now all
of our code is you know plain as day
inside of this window closes up let me
mention one thing here to what you
notice is auntie is going to show
package content that's because it
gadgets extensions claim is what's
called a package that means in the
finder and other open save channels you
can't actually go inside of it without
going through a custom interface better
experience for the end user can they can
drag these things around and they don't
actually go into them but makes a little
hard to develop okay so let's fix the
bug the bug that we're going to fix is
going to go ahead and launch Safari if
you drop calculator on to Safari you'll
see that it has this font it's actually
Helvetica but you'll notice on Steve's
machine he had a segmented LCD display
you guys have a tube it's just I'm a
moron so what you have to do is open up
your calculator HTML file and the actual
bug is this guy right here you see where
we set the font this is a CSS so you see
we're set the pharmacist does DB LCD
temp that's the name of our font so
we're just kind of that's the bug so
this is real I mean it's on you which is
actually her name again now you'll see
that is fun there's your font so you
guys can actually fix our bugs yeah
please please okay so that's the person
we what we just wanted to get that other
way so you guys can actually do this too
and if there's some technique that you
saw on any of the gadgets that you've
played with feel free copies you copy
the technique we have some animation
stuff in there that's actually kind of
interesting we have some workarounds
with some bugs that we've come across
and those are you know scatter
throughout their because obviously you
know where engineers we don't we don't
put comments and anything so it's best
if you just you know learn by seeing
what we've done so let's go ahead and
get something working what we have here
is
hello world gadget is on the sdk that
you guys don't have so I'm going to
start by copying that now you'll see
validator gadget well this is actually
i'm going to call it Bella degraded
someone to call it validator temp and
I'm going to call this guy there we go
about the data via the validator it's
really not that cool show package
contents okay now you'll see we have a
few things in this folder we've got a
default paying the hello world in the
info.plist if you haven't seen it
already all it does is just chili world
not that exciting so what we're going to
do is we're going to modify the
info.plist go ahead and double-click it
few few things inside of here allow
multiple instances that's just if you
want to have something like stickies or
you can keep dragging your gadget off by
default if that's set to get if that's
set to know you're going to get a great
out title in your in the configuration
bar the thing you absolutely have to
change is the CF bundle identifier these
have to be unique across all the all the
gadgets on the system so we're going to
call this just plain old validators the
next thing is a fee a bundle name so
this is the display name that's going to
show up in the config bar so you can
make this you know pretty looking so
we'll just call it the validator we call
the config bars of plus the power you
just drag everything to in front ok the
next thing you know these versions I
don't really matter the default image
what that should be is the a pink file
at the top level of your gadget you
don't put the dot paying extension on I
think that's a buzz here well so that
should just be you know your name so if
you have uniboob r dot paying just call
it simple the next thing you're going to
see is the height and width these are
the numbers that we use to specify the
width and height of your image for the
drag now if you put a big number in
there I think what we're going to do is
stretch the image to fill that number if
the image does not match the fries you
put their that default image will be
stretched channel exam so what we're
going to do is in my temp we're going to
go ahead and show package contents
here's my what the hell did I just do Oh
is
right cut the mic he's out yeah sorry
yeah okay so we're going to do is go
ahead and move I think there's a book
and find out what that doesn't actually
work so if you go ahead and move the
fall ping in there that's a new picture
did you know that at to a fanny yeah
we're going to see this in icon view so
Andy and I are actually artists on the
side you'll be picking this up to so
this is our picture it looks pretty lame
and high give a guy freak okay so you'll
see in Safari that it tells us how big
this picture so it's 150 x 150 pixels so
we're going to go ahead and go in here
change that to 150 150 now last thing we
have is the main HTML file and we're
going to want that to be the validator
HTML file so there is our validator HTML
here's our hello world we're going to
just toss that guy go ahead and move the
validator in find a bug nice okay so we
now have the basic structure now we're
going to get into this in just a little
bit but this plugin requires this Desai
this gadget requires a native code
plug-in to do something will tell you in
about a bit so what I'm gonna do is I'm
going to go ahead and put my plugin and
since we'll get to this again in a
little bit that these plugins need to be
owned by root and we'll tell you why in
just a second desktop because it
validator bucks gadgets plugin hi kya
and now we're going to do a pseudo
channeling the week validator okay so
now we have a gadget let's go ahead and
try it out so a couple ways you can get
these into dashboards right so if we go
ahead and bring up dashboard we just
have this you can either double click it
or you can start a dragon i'm going to
show you this because this is how we're
going to use micro go ahead and start a
drag go and bring up dashboard and let
go that looks bad doesn't it and
actually there's probably something
wrong in our validator so
fiscal to validation of the fix so okay
we have our enthalpy list we go through
everything oh you know the big problem
is I didn't change this guy right so
these are little gadgets that can get
you we know it's a pain we're going to
try and make this better this is just
like a bun in st. battle format you set
your resources the names have to match
everything it's a budget right resources
okay we've done that good try it again
better and it's going to actually stick
around that means it's there okay now
let's try it out let's bring up hello
world this guy takes a drop target and
it's actually going to go ahead and do
the Safari thing now I think because I
screwed that up I'm going to again
ignore all this stuff you can actually
you know if that's for this actually I
don't ignore this now don't acknowledge
dashboard sometimes get into kind of a
funky state what were they developed or
dvd this is a developer whoa easy okay
what you may have to do sometimes is
kill the dashboard it's going to restart
itself all you gotta do is bring it up
so just like that it's also a note you
should note that the dashboard server is
obviously are so lightweight that they
do really start up almost instantly
right right you might feel like it's not
restarted but it has so the next thing
is so now we have you'll notice it still
didn't work and that's because inside of
this code we have a plug-in and one more
key that we're going to show you in just
a bit I promise is that we need to
specify that so I'm going to go ahead
and add a new child i'm going to call it
plugin p l ug IM ok and we're going to
call it the valid date you know i spell
things out as i type i don't know why
got gadget flow again
I'll see if that works and just to be
parent item I couldn't do that just
sprinkle those around when things work I
mean really ok now let's give it another
world go ahead and drop this guy I
worked ok so what it did is generated
this little bit of HTML and it tells us
that it exceeded now I've actually
mopped up a bad demo or I'm sorry bad
dunya telling a bad gadget and now this
is going to tell us that this gadget
failed because we're missing the whiskey
right so you guys can come get this from
a the fixed version of all this in the
lab will go through that simply you look
in the populace you'll see that on the
whole we have a height but no wit and
then together with and then I don't know
what it was and then it should actually
work this time well okay it didn't well
you get the idea remember that whole
thing about the bad it was fun ready
this last night yeah so I think that's
all we have for writing league if we go
back to life yes ok so we just wrote a
gadget and had a demo alright so that
was a very that was very simple gadget
one of the things you saw Andy do was he
caused the dashboard layer to disappear
and have safari to launch this is done
through the gadget extension I was
telling you about before a JavaScript
object that we push into the environment
that lets you do a few things there's a
couple there's a couple there's a couple
of methods that you should know about
the gadget op there's this is all
documented in the SDK so you can read
what all the message do and what not
there's a couple we should call out
let's start actually here at the bottom
not resizing your guess you're sliding
your gadget or widget your your gadget
exists inside of a window the window has
to be the exact size of your gadget or a
lot of the animations don't work the
ripple effects the closed box whatnot
they all look at the window slices and
try to determine what to do so we have
here is a gadget resize two methods
there's actually two method resides to
Andres eyes by the pretty pretty
self-evident takes a width and a height
or Delta wits and a delta height
there's this is very close officer
filling with client-side javascript is
very similar to the window the window
recite surah size 5 method they're a
little bit different and that these
don't have limitations on size where the
where the window one does okay so that's
resides in your widget we also have the
configuration flip I'm assuming all
you've seen the demo but you can click
we want we want you need some place in
the in the dashboard of store
preferences so what we came up with this
idea is that well you flip everything
around and put that on the back so it
doesn't interfere with your work but
it's easy to get to we have a real
simple way to do this inside of this we
catch it objects it's basically three
methods and that's it there's a start
edit a finish edit and a run at a
transition what let me tell y'all just
works all you do is you say start edit
start at it takes it basically takes a
screen capture of your gadget whatever
is on the screen at that time then it's
freezing up they all updates to the to
the to the monitor then all you do is
call run edit transition sorry then what
you do is you change your HTML in a
variety of different ways you know you
can add elements remove stuff do
whatever you need to do and none of this
will go to the screen because the screen
is frozen then you say run edit
transition then what we do behind the
vent and pine your gets back is we take
those two sides and we do the open jail
flip and then we also have the backwards
version which is finished finish at it
that's the same thing its start at it
but it flips in the opposite direction
going back from your edits lied to your
actual gadget really important thing to
realize you must call run edit
transition if you do not call run edit
translation all screen updates not just
for the schedule all screen updates or
stops this is a limitation of the DVD
not necessarily a limitation going to be
in Tiger if you don't do it we actually
do have a timer because we don't want to
don't doesn't want to stop whole system
and will cause for you i'm not actually
familiar with the granularity of the
timer i think it's like 35 seconds
something like that okay so that's
that's how we do the configuration flip
another thing i was talking about is how
we do the server side dragging you're
familiar with this you know and in-app
skating carbon apps work if an
application tongue you can still move
the window around this is really nice we
wanted to take that same behavior into
the gadget or the dashboard layer so no
matter what's wrong with a gadget you
can take it you can move it around you
can even close it right get rid of it so
if you have a bad gadget you know you
can can spank it
thank ya accusing I think we need more
practicing here ok so in case the
server-side dragon is really great but
there's times when you don't want that I
mean you have say a slider you have any
type of tracking control you want to
recite something whatever right when you
have that we have the message for you to
help you out here these are only just a
few of them basically we have what are
called control regions or control areas
and what that comes down to the circles
and Rex what's important is there's
always been open and a closed when you
open some control Rex you set them and
then you close them when you close them
they go to the server if you don't close
them nothing's going to happen all right
okay same thing is also you need to open
and close when you clear your ex yeah
sure that's a common mistake we always
make yeah you can't just call clear at
all controller extra clay our control
wreck everything is between an open and
closed closure ok let's move along ok so
you saw Andy you saw Andy having to do
some nasty things in the terminal we
really want you guys to try to stay in
sight of HTML as much as possible just
HTML and JavaScript and the reason why
is because it's a cleaner environment to
the end user it's a sandbox environment
whether there's not much they can do and
they can't hurt your machine but
eventually you're going to run against
the wall for something you're going to
create and that's why we have the
ability to write objective-c code that
then link since into the gadget we call
these gadget plugins all these are is a
cocoa bundle and to create a cocoa
bundle you launch out you launch Xcode I
believe there's a template for that is
called Coco bundle so you create one of
these things and they live either in
system life or gadget plugins or they
live for they can live also implies a
bundle the important thing is they have
to be owned by root and the reason why
we did that it so that if a user guides
one of these gadgets they have to put in
the administrator password to actually
install it so they can install malicious
code on their system the important thing
to note there is that just because own
where it doesn't mean you're actually
right running is rewrite these none of
this is running x rays this is all
running by the user so this is just a
file permission issue ok so you use the
gadget plug it extension
and you have to have a principal class
this is creating plugins as simple
there's basically two api's you have
this principle class and there's two
methods that you have to implement on
that principle class and it was webview
is the first one and it was webview we
find we never we almost never use it
right Eddie yeah it's what we do is if
you need it whatever you allows you to
access to the web view as of the web the
web view as it's loading stuff allows
you to set up any initialization you
might want to do or what not the major
method is Windows Script object
available this this message gets called
this method gets called before any
javascript is executed executing a web
page this allows you to do what we did
with the gadget slugs at the gadget
extension so you can stick any you can
stick any objective c object and push it
through the binding system of a WebKit
and it goes into the JavaScript runtime
allowing you to do anything literally
anything alright so that's the windows
script object available ok when we do
with demos complaining a little more
about how you write a how you write a
code plugin right so back to demo 20
here we go I've got the source code for
the validator plug-in right here the
next code project I'm going to take you
through just a couple things on the
project so when you create a new plugin
and you Coco bundle you're going to get
an empty project inside of what is it
targets you're going to have a default
target if we get info on that target
you're going to see a properties panel
now you can set your identify here
doesn't really matter the interesting
thing to us is you have to set your
principal class so when you go ahead and
create a new object a new sorry new
objective c object using xcode just set
its principal class right here the other
thing you're going to want to do is go
to the build tab and there's a little
thing down here called rapper extension
by default on a on a cocoa bundle it's
going to say bundle you know one change
that to gadget plugin no technically
this is not as force that might be a
force in this feature so should we go to
the youth extension now yeah okay so
let's take a quick look through the code
here we see thee and it was very can you
guys see this is that too small
too small all right i'm gonna make it
bigger on bigger rock solid Oh
preferences any expert expert nothing we
just to HTML know Oh syntax this guy
nice yeah I use this a lot we really are
engineers by the way okay so is that
better okay so let's take a look here we
have our net with love you it does
nothing I was going to have some big
grand plans but I'd you know doesn't do
anything in there right now we have addy
Alec here's the interesting part the
window Script object available so your
past a web Script object this comes from
WebKit and you're going to call a method
so you actually just going to do set
value for key on that object that you're
passed in and which we set for that
value so we're going to set ourself and
that means tell the JavaScript binding
system to look at ourselves store any
message that we want to explore it into
the json' time by the way this is all
documented in another session coming
later today I think we have another
slide it explains this process more in
detail whole body mix it is it will be
tomorrow it will be talking about him
the key is in this case validator so
that's how you're going to access this
object inside of the jf runtime so it's
going to be a global object called
validator dot whatever now the rest of
this do I show them that in the HTML
okay awesome in a sec so here we have
excuse me web script name for selector
this is also called by the WebKit and
what this allows you to do is set a
pretty name for the names of your
methods so this map sasa objective-c
selector to a javascript name by default
these guys come up with a pretty ugly
name i think it's underscore underscore
you know whatever your method name is
that can get kind of tedious but that's
done so there aren't any collisions in
the namespace so we just remap
everything to check plug-in permissions
in this case you know save results to 10
the other thing we can do is you can
exclude things from the job the JS
findings
so by default the bindings use object
introspection to find out what methods
are going to be available in the runtime
so you don't necessarily want your knit
and d alec and all this other stuff in
there so in the example here we have a
opt-in approach so we're going to
exclude everything except you know check
plug informations and save results
attempt and all we do is we set a bull
we return the bowl the other thing is
the same exact concept applies to ivars
in your object so this key is you know
JavaScript we prevent anything with an
underscore from being mapped into the
binding system now it turns out we
actually don't have any other variables
but you guys can use that now we have
two methods here check plug-in
permissions all this guy does in this
validator gadget is just checks it
returns a bool and it says if the plug
in the past that you pass in is owned by
root this is what we talked about before
we're unfortunate it's routine this now
is the melody will actually check that
to make sure your plugin is is that
correctly and this is real I mean all we
do you know you could do what you do
whatever you want but in this case we
just call else that and we just do
something you'll notice what's
interesting here is that we don't
actually do any marshaling of arguments
between the j s in the objective-c world
that's all hang up for us by the binding
system so any object i believe any
scalar type any scalar type creo you can
go type any object can be passed back
and forth with you don't you deal with
it just happens for free right and same
thing so we just use any strings
everything just just works and I tell
you build a native code let's show you
how lets it show you what looks like
inside of the code something to go back
to this guy validator catch it so you'll
see in our HTML file it's going to be
real simple there's just going to be a
validator so the way we will see this
this style inside of our code we just do
a check to see if the object exists and
all we do that for so that you can run
this guy inside of Safari I am important
we also you feed it through out all our
sources if yeah there's any gadget acts
that you see if gadget then we're
actually used to gadget this lets you
debug insight is Safari where the gadget
objects does not exist right the second
you start adding native code plugins
things get just a little bit hairier
so we just do this quick check if this
operates available then go ahead and
call validator you know save results to
temp and you just pass it over variable
you want that's all it looks like all
right let's go back to spice
alright thank you Andy okay so there's a
couple tips would like to get across
this is type of stuff well first let me
tell you something I'm Andy and I when
we came to this project knew absolutely
what less than zero HTML we knew
basically something with a dot HTML
extension went to a web browser so we
had no experience in HTML I think we had
both idle maybe a little experience in
JavaScript so we basically you know
doing the same type of learning that you
may or may not be doing so we can't we
came across a couple tips that really
helped us out one way we debug mostly is
with alerts and exceptions both alerts
and exceptions in the dashboard layer go
to the consult you can always go and
look at your console and we find errors
and whatnot the exceptions are only on
only go to your console for the WWDC
bills in the future they would not go
there because I was flood you know what
the end user but it's helpful if you
have a runway you know especially if
something like an event handler that
keeps throwing an extension that keeps
happening you can find it really quickly
in something like this one of the other
things we added primarily for
development is ability to reload your
gadget inside of the dashboard layer I
have to do is bring up the dashboard
select it hit command are and they'll
all they smell really load this makes it
really easy just to go into your HTML if
you need to change some CSS changing
speed HTML change from JavaScript
whatever hit reload and bam it's right
there and entertain you great so it's a
quick way to test changes okay so now
we've shown writing a writing a plug-in
and you're ready to plug in over here
and so if you're like Andy you might
have some issues with your with your
code if I my trash or something else or
you might need to bug something just for
a while is all right so unfortunately
it's a little hard to debug these things
it's unfortunate for you fortunate for
the end user this is what happens is the
server is launching the client process
you don't have access to the server or
the client process you're only writing
these plugins either in these gadgets
sorry which are in HTML or these plugins
being loaded in by the client process so
you need to find the pit to get to those
process to attach to them via g to be
i'm not going to go too deep and attach
with gdb but we can show you that later
we need to find it unfortunately
unfortunately that doesn't show up in
top or any the normal unix tools it does
show up in some higher-level tools we
have we have a great yeah we have great
utility and application utilities called
activity monitor if you double click on
that you'll find that the name
the name of your gadget is something
like dashboard it's something mainly
gadget dashboard client you would only
see that in this pit so you can go there
look at it get the paint and then attach
the other thing that you're going to
have maybe have troubles in this
environment is that the dashboard layer
takes over your whole screen so it's
very hard to GDB it at the same time in
fact they almost impossible so dual
machine debugging is the best way to go
at that point until one of you write a
slayer GDB gadget we really want that
yeah that'd be really cool alright i
quote powerbook we really want that
gadget okay okay so another thing just
was just a short coming in the system we
have right now if we reload
automatically syncs until the library
gadgets and library gadgets / library
gadgets we do not do this once the
dashboard is loading so that's only when
it starts up so if you've done something
there you're not gonna it's not gonna
automatically load for you what you can
do is when any kind of show before you
can either double-click on them brings
up the dashboard layer or you can drag
them then they're added then the folks
that config borrow the dashboard so
everybody knows about them okay let's go
to the next slide Oh another thing part
of this your alpha most cash reporter
properly or maybe maybe not crash
reporter gives you this great way to get
back traces on code plugins or anything
else that are crashing unfortunately for
developer no background applications
crashed reporters are actually shown
they're all hidden so what you need to
do is go to another another utility
called crash reporter pressed inside of
a developer application utilities and
there is I think a radio one that says
developer as soon as you hit that any
background application will allow you to
will will then show crash reports and
that will help you debug there's a great
thing that the app state team advice
yeah there's a great thing that's a
web-sight team at it too many kit seems
at Apple it's called a good bug menu and
you see here is a command to turn that
on its that thing defaults write combat
apples that Safari include debug menu
this is a great tool in fact the Safari
Safari team added I think a new new menu
called JavaScript console the JavaScript
console will be really really helpful
for tracking down exceptions and whatnot
inside of your JavaScript code and also
has stupid editors and whatnot that we
talked about another session the other
thing they added by the way is the
ability to make
the Safari window I know so it's kind of
flaky but it allows you to make the
Safari window look like the dashboard so
it turns off background drawing makes
the window transparent so you can
basically see a web page you know
floating yeah you can get an idea what
your cash it looks like it's really
great I just takes away makes it look
like a really kind of funny actually we
can show that for those you're not
familiar with unix programming and you
need you need to make your plug-in route
like we're talking about for security
reasons here's the command to do it if
you need to do it from the commandment
or you can build those routes there's a
lot of alternatives there all right
fleur tips we have a lot of sessions
coming up that will help you write
gadget most of them are the WebKit
related sessions we kind of same here
i'm not going to go into them I think
the building visually can play web pages
is special you'd be interesting for you
all right we also there's we have a
reference library I think we have I
think we have lots of examples on disk
in the SDK we have documentation there's
tutorials there's a there's an
interesting what does it have because
picture gadget in there yes that's
what's done it's actually done by one of
our documentation people who picked this
up and did it in two days could give you
an idea same thing for the I think you
guys can do the same thing for the
contest and there's two books the two
books andy and i think we sleep with
these books at this point right possibly
help it yeah these views books are great
news books really helps us out if you're
starting out the defending the guy but
David plan again javascript and the
cascading style sheets these will really
help you out learning how to write HTML
learning how to use CSS incorporating
all that all right we also have a lab we
kind of went through this writ kind of
quickly it's kind of hard to kind of
take it in so we're going to have is a
lab today from 12 to five where Andy and
myself and Thal WebKit team Richard away
from david Hyde and maybe a few others
will be around to you know help you out
answer any questions step you through
steps where you going for the day until
five o'clock five o'clock right so we're
gonna be there two three will be
drinking heavily after yes there's
something thanks for rent